---
layout: post
title: Red Queen with population dynamics
description: "Song, Y., Gokhale, C. S., Papkou, A., Schulenburg, H. & Traulsen, A. (2015). Host-parasite coevolution in populations of constant and variable size. BMC Evolutionary Biology, 15, 212."
modified: 2015-09-30
tags: [stochastic processes, co-evolution, Red Queen, Lotka Volterra, drift]
image:
  feature: abstract-3.jpg
  credit: dargadgetz
  creditlink: http://www.dargadgetz.com/ios-7-abstract-wallpaper-pack-for-iphone-5-and-ipod-touch-retina/
comments: true
share: true
---

###Song, Y., Gokhale, C.S., Papkou, A., Traulsen, A., & Schulenburg, H.

###*Host-parasite coevolution in populations of constant and variable size.*

###*BMC Evolutionary Biology,*

###15, 212

***

> "Now here you see, it takes all the running you can do, to keep in the same place. If you want to get somewhere else, you must run at least twice as fast as that" (The Red Queen)
-- Lewis Carroll (Through the Looking-Glass)

The matching-allele and gene-for-gene models are widely used in mathematical approaches that study the dynamics of host-parasite interactions. [Agrawal and Lively](#agrawal:2002) captured these two models in a single framework and numerically explored the associated time discrete dynamics of allele frequencies.

Here, we present a detailed analytical investigation of this unifying framework in continuous time and provide a generalization. We extend the model to take into account changing population sizes, which result from the antagonistic nature of the interaction and follow the Lotka-Volterra equations. Under this extension, the population dynamics become most complex as the model moves away from pure matching-allele and becomes more gene-for-gene-like. While the population densities oscillate with a single oscillation frequency in the pure matching-allele model, a second oscillation frequency arises under gene-for-gene-like conditions. These observations hold for general interaction parameters and allow to infer generic patterns of the dynamics.

Our results suggest that experimentally inferred dynamical patterns of host-parasite coevolution should typically be much more complex than the popular illustrations of Red Queen dynamics. A single parasite that infects more than one host can substantially alter the cyclic dynamics.

<div markdown="0"><a href="http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2148/15/212" class="btn btn-success">Link to Paper</a></div>

<div markdown="0"><a href="http://www.biomedcentral.com/content/pdf/s12862-015-0462-6.pdf" class="btn btn-info">Download PDF</a></div>

<a id="agrawal:2002">Agrawal A, Lively CM. Infection genetics: gene-for-gene versus matching-alleles models and all points in between. Evol Ecol Res. 2002;4:79–90.</a>