---
layout: post
title: Unravelling the complexity and redundancy of carbon catabolic repression in the plant growth‐promoting bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens SBW25
description: "Liu, Y., Gokhale, C.S.,
Rainey, R.B. and Zhang, X-X. (2017). Unravelling the complexity and redundancy of carbon catabolic repression in the plant growth‐promoting bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens SBW25, Molecular Microbiology"
modified: 2017-06-19
tags: [quasispecies, deterministic]
image:
  feature: abstract-3.jpg
  credit: dargadgetz
  creditlink: http://www.dargadgetz.com/ios-7-abstract-wallpaper-pack-for-iphone-5-and-ipod-touch-retina/
comments: true
share: true
---

### Liu, Y., Gokhale, C.S., Rainey, R.B. and Zhang, X-X.

### *Unravelling the complexity and redundancy of carbon catabolic repression in the plant growth‐promoting bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens SBW25*

### *Molecular Microbiology*

### early edition

***

> Redundancy
> Redundancy


The two-component system CbrAB is the principal regulator for cellular metabolic balance in Pseudomonas fluorescens SBW25 and is necessary for growth on many substrates including xylose. To understand the regulatory linkage between CbrAB and genes for xylose utilization (xut), we performed transposon mutagenesis of ΔcbrB to select for Xut+ suppressors. This led to identification of crc and hfq. Subsequent genetic and biochemical analysis showed that Crc and Hfq are key mediators of succinate-provoked carbon catabolite repression (CCR). Specifically, Crc/Hfq sequentially bind to mRNAs of both the transcriptional activator and structural genes involved in xylose catabolism. However, in the absence of succinate, repression is relieved through competitive binding by two ncRNAs, CrcY and CrcZ, whose expression is activated by CbrAB. These findings provoke a model for CCR in which it is assumed that crc and hfq are functionally complementary, whereas crcY and crcZ are genetically redundant. Inactivation of either crcY or crcZ produced no effects on bacterial fitness in laboratory media, however, results of mathematical modelling predict that the co-existence of crcY and crcZ requires separate functional identity. Finally, we provide empirical evidence that CCR is advantageous in nutrient-complex environments where preferred carbon sources are present at high concentrations but fluctuate in their availability.

<div markdown="0"><a href="http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/mmi.13720/full" class="btn btn-success">Link To Paper</a></div>

<div markdown="0"><a href="#" class="btn btn-success">Paper on bioRxiv (soon)</a></div>

<div markdown="0"><a href="#<!--{{ site.url }}/papers/Liu_MolMicro_2017.pdf-->" class="btn btn-info">Download PDF</a></div>
